Log Levels guidelines (#19)
swift-server/guides: log-levels.md

Out of those, only levels _less severe than_ info (exclusive) are generally okay to be used by libraries.
In the following section we'll explore how to use them in practice.

### Recommended log levels

It is always fine for a library to log at `trace` and `debug` levels, and these two should be the primary levels any library is logging at.

`trace` is the finest log level, and end-users of a library will not usually use it unless debugging very specific issues. You should consider it as a way for library developers to "log everything we could possibly need to diagnose a hard to reproduce bug". It is expected to take a toll on the performance of a system, and developers can assume trace level logging will not be used in production deployments, unless enabled specifically to locate some specific issue.

This is in contrast with `debug` which some users _may_ choose to run with enabled on their production systems.

> Debug level logging should be not "too" noisy. Developers should assume some production deployments may need to (or want to) run with debug level logging enabled. 
>
> Debug level logging should not completely undermine the performance of a production system.

> As such, `debug` logging should not be overly noisy. It should provide a high value understanding of what is going on in the library for end users without diving deep into its internals. This is what `trace` is intended for.

Reviewer: I think we should add (here or elsewhere) that you should try to make `debug` self-contained. What I mean with that you have enough information in just `debug` (without `trace`) to correlate two messages.

So for example if I see

```
debug: conection established [connection-id: 7]
debug: connection closed unexpectedly [error: foobar]
```

then I have a problem because I don't know if the second message is related to the first. So what I would suggest is (and what is done in AHC):
- make sure that there is _one_ ID (usually the request ID) that is logged in all messages related to that activity. (ie. in the above example, "connection closed unexpectedly" should also have `connection-id: 7`
- no need to log all IDs of everything every time, just the 'correlation ID' is enough. For example in AHC, we log a log of stuff in the 'starting request` message and in all follow-ups we just log the connection ID to be able to correlate it with the 'starting request' message that has all the other info (like the TCP connection etc).

Reviewer: the reason of course is: If we need `trace` to make sense of `debug`, then `trace` == `debug` :P

Author: good hint, will add 👍

Author: Added a section on this, let me know what you think -- edits welcome :)

> Use `warning` level sparingly. Whenever possible, try to rather emit errors to end users that are descriptive enough so they can inspect, log them and figure out the issue. Potentially they may then enable debug logging to find out more about the issue.

Reviewer: I think we could be somewhat more precise around "emit errors". I think what you mean is instead of logging an error at `warning`, throw the error/fail the future with an appropriate error message that the user can then log (or not).

Author: yes, rephrased it to be more precise

This is in contrast with `debug` which some users _may_ choose to run with enabled on their production systems.

> Debug level logging should be not "too" noisy. Developers should assume some production deployments may need to (or want to) run with debug level logging enabled. 
>
> Debug level logging should not completely undermine the performance of a production system.

As such, `debug` logging should not be overly noisy. It should provide a high value understanding of what is going on in the library for end users without diving deep into its internals. This is what `trace` is intended for.

Use `warning` level sparingly. Whenever possible, try to rather return or throw `Error` to end users that are descriptive enough so they can inspect, log them and figure out the issue. Potentially they may then enable debug logging to find out more about the issue.

> It is okey to log a `warning` "once", for example on system startup. This may include some one off "more secure configuration is available, try upgrading to it!" log statement upon a servers startup. You may also log warnings from background processes, which otherwise have no other means of informing the end user about some issue.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
It is okay to log a `warning` "once", for example on system startup. This may include some one off "more secure configuration is available, try upgrading to it!" log statement upon a servers startup. You may also log warnings from background processes, which otherwise have no other means of informing the end user about some issue.
```

> Logging on `error` level is similar to warnings: prefer to avoid doing so whenever possible. Instead offer errors or other mechanicms to users of your library such that they are informed about some error ocurring. For example, it is _not_ a good idea to log "connection failed" from an http client. Perhaps the end-user intended to make this request to a known offline server to _confirm_ it is offline? From their perspective this connection error is not a "real" error, it is just what they expected -- as such the http client should return or throw such error, but _not_ log it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Logging on `error` level is similar to warnings: prefer to avoid doing so whenever possible. Instead, report errors via your library's API. For example, it is _not_ a good idea to log "connection failed" from an HTTP client. Perhaps the end-user intended to make this request to a known offline server to _confirm_ it is offline? From their perspective this connection error is not a "real" error, it is just what they expected -- as such the HTTP client should return or throw such an error, but _not_ log it.
```

> Do also note that in situations when you decide to log an error, be mindful of error rates. Will this error potentially be logged for every single operation while some network failure is happening? Some teams and companies have alerting systems set up based on the rate of errors logged in a system, and if it exceeds some threshold it may start calling and paging people in the middle of the night. When logging at error level, consider if the issue indeed is something that should be waking up people at night. You may also want to consider offering configuration in your library: "at what log level should this issue be reported?" This can come in handy in clustered systems which may log network failures themselfes, or depend on external systems detecting and reporting this.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Do also note that in situations when you decide to log an error, be mindful of error rates. Will this error potentially be logged for every single operation while some network failure is happening? Some teams and companies have alerting systems set up based on the rate of errors logged in a system, and if it exceeds some threshold it may start calling and paging people in the middle of the night. When logging at error level, consider if the issue indeed is something that should be waking up people at night. You may also want to consider offering configuration in your library: "at what log level should this issue be reported?" This can come in handy in clustered systems which may log network failures themselves, or depend on external systems detecting and reporting this.
```

#### Examples

`trace` level logging:

- could include various additional information about a request, such as various diagnostics about created datastructures, the state of caches or similar, which are created in order to serve a request.
- could include "begin operation" and "end operation" logs, 
  - however please do consider using swift-distributed-tracing to instrument such "begin/end" events as tracing can be more efficient than logging which may need to create string representations of the durations and log levels etc.

`debug` level logging:

- may include a single log statement for opening a connection, or accepting a request etc,
- it can include a _high level_ overview of what is going on in the library "started work, processing step X, finished work X, result code 200"

### Log levels to avoid

> All these rules are only _general_ guidelines, and as such may have exceptions.Consider the following examples and rationale for why logging at high log levels by a library may not be desirable:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
All these rules are only _general_ guidelines, and as such may have exceptions. Consider the following examples and rationale for why logging at high log levels by a library may not be desirable:
```

> It is generally _not acceptable_ for a service client (e.g. an http client) to log an `error` when a request has failed. End-users may be using the client to probe if an endpoint is even responsive or not, and a failure to respond may be _expected_ behavior. Logging errors would only confuse and pollute their logs.

Reviewer 2: this seems to duplicate line 38.

Instead, libraries should either `throw`, or return an `Error` value that users of the library will have enough knowladge about if they should log or ignore it.

> It is even less acceptable for a library to log any successful operations. This leads to flodding server side systems, especially 

Reviewer 2: sentence cuts off?

Author: Thanks fixed: 

> It is even less acceptable for a library to log any successful operations. This leads to flodding server side systems, especially if e.g. one were to log every successfully handled request in a server side application this can easily flood and overwhelm logging systems when deployed to production where many end users are connected to the same server. Such issues are rarely found in development time, because of only a single peer requesting things from the service-under-test.

#### Examples (of things to avoid)

Avoid using `info` or any higher log level for:

- "normal operation" of the library, i.e. there is no need to log on info level "accepted a request" as this is the normal operation of a web service.

Avoid using `error` or `warning`:

> - to report errors which the end-user of the library has the means of logging themselfes, e.g. if a database driver fails to fetch all rows of a query, it should not log an error or warning, but instead e.g. error the stream of values (or function, async function, or even the async sequence) that was representing the returned values.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- to report errors which the end-user of the library has the means of logging themselves, e.g. if a database driver fails to fetch all rows of a query, it should not log an error or warning, but instead e.g. error the stream of values (or function, async function, or even the async sequence) that was representing the returned values.
```

  - since the end-user is consuming these values, and has a mean of reporting (or swallowing) this error, the library should not log anything on their behalf.

> - never report as warnings which is merely an information, e.g. "weird header detected" may look like a good idea to log as a warning at first sight, however if the "weird header" is simply a misconfigured client (or just a "weird browser") you may be accidentally completely flooding an end-users logs with these "weird header" warnings (!)

Reviewer 4: We might want to have an additional explanation as to why not to log a warning once, then fall back to debug/trace. (Must always check an atomic)

Author: I expanded it a bit

It may be tempting to implement a "log as warning only once" technique for per-request style situations which may be almost important enough to be a warning, but should not be logged repeatedly after all. Authors may think of smart techniques to log a warning only once per "weird header discovered" and later on log the same issue on a different, e.g. trace level... Such techniques result in confusing hard to debug logs, where developers of a system unaware of the stateful nature of the logging would be left confused when trying to reproduce the issue. 

- For example, if a developer spots such warning in a productiuon system, they may attempt to reproduce it thinking that it only happens in the production environment. However if the logging systems' log level choice is _sateful_ they may actually be successfully reproducing the issue but never seeing it manifest. For this, and related performance reasons (as implementing "only once per X" implies growing storage and per-request additional checking requirements), it is not recommended to apply this pattern.

Exceptions to the "avoid logging warnings" rule:

- "background processes" such as tasks scheduled on a periodic timer, may not have any other means of communicating a failure or warning to the end user of the library other than through logging.
  - consider offering an API that would collect errors at runtime, and then you can avoid logging errors manually. This can often take the form of a customizable "on error" hook that the library accepts when constructing the scheduled job. If the handler is not customized, we can log the errors, but if it was, it again is up to the end-user of the library to decide what to do with them.

### Suggested logging style

While libraries are free to use whichever logging message style they choose, here are some best practices to follow if you want users of your libraries *love* the logs your library produces.

> Firstly, it is important to remember that both the message of a log statement as well as the metadata in [swift-log](https://github.com/apple/swift-log) are auto closures, which are only invoked if the logger has a log set such that it must emit a message for the message given. As such, messages e.g. logged at `trace` do not "materialize" their string and metadata representation unless they are actually needed:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Firstly, it is important to remember that both the message of a log statement as well as the metadata in [swift-log](https://github.com/apple/swift-log) are [autoclosure](https://docs.swift.org/swift-book/LanguageGuide/Closures.html#ID543), which are only invoked if the logger has a log set such that it must emit a message for the message given. As such, messages e.g. logged at `trace` do not "materialize" their string and metadata representation unless they are actually needed:
```

> Firstly, it is important to remember that both the message of a log statement as well as the metadata in [swift-log](https://github.com/apple/swift-log) are auto closures, which are only invoked if the logger has a log set such that it must emit a message for the message given. As such, messages e.g. logged at `trace` do not "materialize" their string and metadata representation unless they are actually needed:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Firstly, it is important to remember that both the message of a log statement as well as the metadata in [swift-log](https://github.com/apple/swift-log) are auto closures, which are only invoked if the logger has a log level set such that it must emit a message for the message given. As such, messages e.g. logged at `trace` do not "materialize" their string and metadata representation unless they are actually needed:
```

> Firstly, it is important to remember that both the message of a log statement as well as the metadata in [swift-log](https://github.com/apple/swift-log) are auto closures, which are only invoked if the logger has a log level set such that it must emit a message for the message given. As such, messages e.g. logged at `trace` do not "materialize" their string and metadata representation unless they are actually needed:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Firstly, it is important to remember that both the message of a log statement as well as the metadata in [swift-log](https://github.com/apple/swift-log) are [autoclosures](https://docs.swift.org/swift-book/LanguageGuide/Closures.html#ID543), which are only invoked if the logger has a log level set such that it must emit a message for the message given. As such, messages e.g. logged at `trace` do not "materialize" their string and metadata representation unless they are actually needed:
```

Author: Nice thanks!

```swift
    public func debug(_ message: @autoclosure () -> Logger.Message,
                      metadata: @autoclosure () -> Logger.Metadata? = nil,
                      source: @autoclosure () -> String? = nil,
                      file: String = #file, function: String = #function, line: UInt = #line) {
```

And a minor yet important hint: avoid inserting newlines and other control characters into log statements (!). Many log aggregation systems assume that a single line in a logged output is specifically "one log statement" which can accidentally break if we log not sanitized, potentially multi-line, strings. This isn't a problem for _all_ log backends, e.g. some will automatically sanitize and form a JSON payload with `{message: "..."}` before emitting it to a backend service collecting the logs, but plain old stream (or file) loggers usually assume that one line equals one log statement - it also makes grepping through logs more reliable.

> #### Logging with Correlation IDs / Trace IDs

Reviewer 3: I think we should go into some detail regarding background/connection loggers for longer running services/clients. I mean the kind of that we inject into

- an [`HTTPClient` on startup](https://github.com/swift-server/async-http-client/blob/5d9b784d69e73c67ba3339933c5209943639d472/Sources/AsyncHTTPClient/HTTPClient.swift#L94)
- an [`AWSClient` on startup](https://github.com/soto-project/soto-core/blob/69d9bf8c4e9418ced238b4c41a2c805c7f3c4b2d/Sources/SotoCore/AWSClient.swift#L73)
- a [`PostgresConnection` on startup](https://github.com/vapor/postgres-nio/blob/d97f26858003d87a1d2b52c0061b243035620996/Sources/PostgresNIO/New/PSQLConnection.swift#L102)

It is worth mentioning that those long running instances in normal circumstances should not be started with a logger that already has a correlation id attached.

Author: > It is worth mentioning that those long running instances in normal circumstances should not be started with a logger that already has a correlation id attached.

That is specifically the reason swift-distributed-tracing logging context / baggage is designed like it is. Specifically, these are called "top level" logging contexts: https://apple.github.io/swift-distributed-tracing-baggage/docs/current/Baggage/Structs/DefaultLoggingContext.html#/s:7Baggage21DefaultLoggingContextV8topLevel6loggerAC0C06LoggerV_tFZ and they don't contain a baggage, as such, they would not contain correlation IDs.

Really, whenever we talk about any correlation IDs we should be thinking in terms of LoggingContext and tracing APIs. Using "just logger metadata" as carrying these is a workaround rather than the proper way IMHO.

Author: I can explain this a bit more here, thanks!

A very common pattern is to log messages with some "correlation id". The best approach in general here is to use a `LoggingContext` from [swift-distributed-tracing](https://github.com/apple/swift-distributed-tracing) as then your library will be able to be traced and used with correlation contexts regardless what tracing system the end-user is using (e.g. open telemetry, zipkin, xray etc.) The concept though can be explained well with just a manually logged "requestID," which we'll explain below.

> Consider an HTTP client as an example of a library that has a lot of metadata about some request, perhas something like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Consider an HTTP client as an example of a library that has a lot of metadata about some request, perhaps something like this:
```

This pattern is somewhat advanced and may not always be the right approach, but consider it in high performance code where logging the same information repeatedly can be too costly.

##### Things to avoid with Correlation ID logging

When logging with correlation contexts make sure to never "drop the ID", it is easiest to get this right when using distributed tracing's LoggingContext since propagating it ensures the carrying of identifiers, however the same applies to any kind of correlation identifier.

Specifically, avoid situations like these:

```swift
debug: conection established [connection-id: 7]
debug: connection closed unexpectedly [error: foobar] // BAD, the connection-id was dropped
```

On the second line, we don't know which connection had the error since the `connection-id` was dropped. Make sure to audit your logging code to ensure all relevant log statements carry neccessary correlation identifiers.

> #### Structured Logging (Semantic Logging)

Reviewer 5: I think we should move this above "Logging with Correlation IDs / Trace IDs" -- since its more common

Author: Okey, sounds good

Consider the folowing not structured log statement:

```swift
// NOT structured logging style
log.info("Accepted connection \(connection.id) from \(connection.peer), total: \(connections.count)")
```

It contains 4 peieces of information:

- we accepted a connection,
- this is it's string representation,
- it is from this peer,
- we currently have `connections.count` active connections.

While this log statement contains all useful information that we meant to relay to end users, it is hard to visually and mechanically parse the detailed information it contains. For example, if we know connections start failing around the time when we reach a total of 100 concurrent connections, it is not trivial to find the specific log statement at which we hit this number. We would have to `grep 'total: 100'` for example, however perhaps there are many other `"total: "` strings present in all of our log systems.

Instead, we can express the same information using the structured logging pattern, as follows:

```swift
log.info("Accepted connection", metadata: [
  "connection.id": "\(connnection.id)",
  "connection.peer": "\(connection.peer)",

>   "connections.total": "\(connections.count)"

Reviewer 3: Do we want to give any guidance on the formatting of metadata keys?

camelCase vs. snake_case vs. snake_case but with dots? prefixes for libraries?

Reviewer: I currently use `ahc:request-url` (although AHC itself still uses `ahc-request-id` which was my previous preferred style :P), ie. short library ID then colon, then whatever-the-name-of-this-case-is

Reviewer 3: well i could see problems with the colon in some query interfaces. anyway. whatever we decide on, i think we should write this down somewhere, to get some consistency.

Author: I'm not sure what various collector systems survive but a typical "key separator" is `.` because those can treat things as "well, basically it's json keys". I'll add it as n idea but i don't think we have a strong recommendation here.

])

// e.g. output:
// <date> info [connection.id:?,connection.peer:?, connections.total:?] Accepted connection
```

which can be formatted, depending on the logging backend, slightly differently on various systems, but even in the simple string representation of such log, we'd be able to grep for `connections.total: 100` rather than having to guess the right string to grep for.

Also, since the message now does not contain all that much "human readable wording", it is less prone to randomly change from "Accepted" to "We have accepted" or vice versa which could break alerting systems which are set up to parse and alert on specific log messages.

> Needless to say, structured logs are very useful in combination with [swift-distributed-tracing](https://github.com/apple/swift-distributed-tracing)'s `LoggingContext`, which automatically populates the metadata with any present trace information. Thanks for this all logs made in response to some specific request will automatically carry the same TraceID.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Structured logs are very useful in combination with [swift-distributed-tracing](https://github.com/apple/swift-distributed-tracing)'s `LoggingContext`, which automatically populates the metadata with any present trace information. Thanks for this all logs made in response to some specific request will automatically carry the same TraceID.
```

I try to avoid things like "obviously", "needless to say" etc. in docs, I think it's a bit unfriendly to beginners who it might not be actually obvious to 🙂

Author: Right, thanks for spotting it!

Author: Random: recently picked up a book about writing style, it's been great and also of course calls out for trimming all such words... still working on it :-) Thanks again

# Log Levels 

> This guide serves as guideline for library authors with regards to what [SwiftLog](https://github.com/apple/swift-log) log levels are apropriate for use in libraries, and in what siuations to use what level.

Reviewer 6: Nit - either 'a guideline' or 'as guidelines'

## Guidelines for Libraries

> SwiftLog defines the following 7 log levels: `trace`, `debug`, `info`, `notice`, `warning`, `error`, `critical`.

Reviewer 6: Might be better as a list
```suggestion
SwiftLog defines the following 7 log levels: 

* `trace`
* `debug`
* `info`
* `notice`
* `warning`
* `error`
* `critical`
```

> Out of those, generally only levels _lower than_ info (exclusive) are generally okey to be used by libraries.

Reviewer 6: Duplication of generally. What does the `exclusive` refer to?
```suggestion
Out of those, only levels _lower than_ info (exclusive) are generally okay to be used by libraries.
```

> In the followig section we'll explore how to use them in practice.

Reviewer 6: Spelling
```suggestion
In the following section we'll explore how to use them in practice.
```

### Recommended log levels

It is always fine for a library to log at `trace` and `debug` levels, and these two should be the primary levels any library is logging at.

> As `trace` is the finest log level, and generally is not going to be used by end-users of a library unless debugging a very specific issue, it should be a way for developers of the library to "log everything we could possibly need to diagnose a hard to reproduce bug."

Reviewer 6: Nit - tighten up the language
```suggestion
`trace` is the finest log level, and end-users of a library will not usually use it unless debugging very specific issues. You should consider it as a way for library developers to "log everything we could possibly need to diagnose a hard to reproduce bug".
```

> **// TODO: should we suggest that a system should be able to survive with debug logging turned on in production (ktoso: I'd suggest that, yes).**

Reviewer 6: Agree

> This is in contrast with `debug` which is some users _may_ choose to run with enabled on their production systems. As such, debug logging should not be overly noisy, and provide a high value understanding of what is going on in the library for end users, without diving deep into its internals (which `trace` is intended for).

Reviewer 6: Nit - tighten up language
```suggestion
This is in contrast with `debug` which some users _may_ choose to run with enabled on their production systems. As such, debug logging should not be overly noisy. It should provide a high value understanding of what is going on in the library for end users without diving deep into its internals. This is what `trace` is intended for.
```

### Log levels to avoid

> All these rules are only _general_ guidelines, and as such may have exceptions to the rules. Please consider the following examples and rationale for why logging at high log levels by a library may not be desirable:

Reviewer 6: Nit - tighten up the language
```suggestion
All these rules are only _general_ guidelines, and as such may have exceptions.Consider the following examples and rationale for why logging at high log levels by a library may not be desirable:
```

Reviewer 6: We might want to even remove this paragraph as it's duplicated below

Author: Ok will do :)

> It is generally _not acceptable_ for a service client (e.g. an http client) to log an `error` when a request has failed. End-users may be using the client to probe if an endpoint is even responsive or not, and a failure to respond may be _expected_ behavior for the end-user, and logging errors would only confuse and pollute their logs.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
It is generally _not acceptable_ for a service client (e.g. an http client) to log an `error` when a request has failed. End-users may be using the client to probe if an endpoint is even responsive or not, and a failure to respond may be _expected_ behavior. Logging errors would only confuse and pollute their logs.
```

Instead, libraries should either `throw`, or return an `Error` value that users of the library will have enough knowladge about if they should log or ignore it.

It is even less acceptable for a library to log any successful operations. This leads to flodding server side systems, especially 

> ### Suggested logging style

Reviewer 5: one other thing worth explaining is performance / cost of computing logging metadata. some library authors may not pay enough attention and / or release that they can take advantage of the auto-closure nature of swift-log so we should highlight that

Libraries may want to embrace the structured logging style.

> **TODO: fill this in more.**

Reviewer 5: I think ew would want to explain about metadata and how it plays into this

Author: Added much info here now

### Exceptions to the rules

As this is only a general guideline, there are exceptions to this rule which must be decided on case-by-case depending on the library and situation at hand.

Here are a few examples of situations when logging a message on a relatively high level might still be tolerable for a library.

> It permittable for a library to log at `critical` level right before a _hard crash_, as a last resort of informing the log collection systems or end-user about additional information detailing the reason for the crash, which _in addition to_ the message from a `fatalError` can lead to an improved diagnosis/debugging experience for end users.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
It's permittable for a library to log at `critical` level right before a _hard crash_, as a last resort of informing the log collection systems or end-user about additional information detailing the reason for the crash. This should be _in addition to_ the message from a `fatalError` and can lead to an improved diagnosis/debugging experience for end users.
```

> Sometimes libraries may be able to detect a harmful misconfiguration of the library. E.g. selecting deprecated protocol versions or similar. In such situations it may be useful to inform users on production by issuing a `warning`, however do take care that such warning is not issued repeatedly! For example, it is not acceptable for an HTTP client to log a warning on every single http request using some misconfiguration of the client. It _may_ be acceptable however for the client to log such warning e.g. _once_ at configuration time, if the library has a good way to do this.

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
Sometimes libraries may be able to detect a harmful misconfiguration of the library. For example, selecting deprecated protocol versions. In such situations it may be useful to inform users in production by issuing a `warning`. However you should ensure that the warning is not logged repeatedly! For example, it is not acceptable for an HTTP client to log a warning on every single http request using some misconfiguration of the client. It _may_ be acceptable however for the client to log such warning e.g. _once_ at configuration time, if the library has a good way to do this.
```

# Log Levels 

This guide serves as guideline for library authors with regards to what [SwiftLog](https://github.com/apple/swift-log) log levels are apropriate for use in libraries, and in what siuations to use what level.

## Guidelines for Libraries

SwiftLog defines the following 7 log levels: 

* `trace`
* `debug`
* `info`
* `notice`
* `warning`
* `error`
* `critical`

Out of those, only levels _lower than_ info (exclusive) are generally okay to be used by libraries.
In the following section we'll explore how to use them in practice.

### Recommended log levels

It is always fine for a library to log at `trace` and `debug` levels, and these two should be the primary levels any library is logging at.

`trace` is the finest log level, and end-users of a library will not usually use it unless debugging very specific issues. You should consider it as a way for library developers to "log everything we could possibly need to diagnose a hard to reproduce bug".

**// TODO: should we suggest that a system should be able to survive with debug logging turned on in production (ktoso: I'd suggest that, yes).**

> This is in contrast with `debug` which some users _may_ choose to run with enabled on their production systems. As such, debug logging should not be overly noisy. It should provide a high value understanding of what is going on in the library for end users without diving deep into its internals. This is what `trace` is intended for.

Reviewer 2: could be helpful to give a concrete example or two here to illustrate the distinction b/w debug and trace

Author: Good feedback, thanks will do!
